# Development Team and Roles

Witch One will require multiple talents working together in order to ship. Ideally, one person will only have to focus on one role, but due to a lack of developers, one will have to tackle multiple tasks. This section will focus on the general tasks that each role is expected to fulfill and a detailed job description for each role.

## General Roles

* Director: the director of the project is responsible for keeping the development going. Interchangeable with project managers. The person with this role must understand the team’s competency and individual strengths and weaknesses. They are to organize and delegate to each development member and keep track of the overall progress.
* Designer: the designer will initially define the game mechanics, concept art/mockup prototype, and anything that proves that the game is ‘fun’. They are also responsible for designing the map layout and everything that the player will interact with and feel. The person with the role MUST have frequent communication with the director in order to allow the team to be caught up with the project.
* Programmer: programmers will create the prototype and the final version of the project. They are responsible for implementing all the features and mechanics that the designer and director approve. However, they should create rapid prototypes so that the designer can see how this mechanic will actually work on practice before finalizing it, meaning their work can change at any point in development.
* Visual Artist: artists can potentially work with the designer to create a mockup project or concept art. Their main task is to create visual assets such as 2D sprites or 3D models. Depending on the project, there can be multiple types of artists and they might have totally different tasks.
* Music Composer: Composers will compose the background music of the game. These people will usually work near the end of a development cycle, as during development, most audio assets will be replaced with placeholder sounds, and composing music based on the final product generally results in a better output. But this can also be a bottleneck for the development pipeline, so it is important that the director balances this out.
* Sound Designer: sound designers are responsible for creating (or finding) different sound effects that will be used throughout the game. Furthermore, their tasks include strategic placement of sound effects as well (eg: adding different sound effects for different surfaces). They will work closely with the designer.
* Tester: most important during the final stages of development, testers will try the game themselves and list anything bad or good about the current build. There will be two major types of testers, one is a blind tester, who will have no information regarding the development scene. They are meant to simulate how the end-user will interact with the game. The other type is the development testers, who will focus on the details that the developers have left out, or find any balancing issues that might happen during gameplay.
